nixos/netbird: harden and extend options (#287236)
NixOS/nixpkgs: nixos/modules/services/networking/netbird.md

## Multiple connections setup {#module-services-netbird-multiple-connections}

Using the `services.netbird.clients` option, it is possible to define more than
one netbird service running at the same time.

You must at least define a `port` for the service to listen on, the rest is optional:

```nix
services.netbird.clients.wt1.port = 51830;
services.netbird.clients.wt2.port = 51831;
```

see [the interpolation section](#module-services-netbird-interpolation) for more details.

## Exposing services internally on the Netbird network {#module-services-netbird-firewall}

You can easily expose services exclusively to Netbird network by combining
[`networking.firewall.interfaces`](#opt-networking.firewall.interfaces) rules with [`interface`](#opt-services.netbird.clients._name_.interface) names:

```nix
{
  services.netbird.clients.priv.port = 51819;
  services.netbird.clients.work.port = 51818;
  networking.firewall.interfaces = {
    "${config.services.netbird.clients.priv.interface}" = {
      allowedUDPPorts = [ 1234 ];
    };
    "${config.services.netbird.clients.work.interface}" = {
      allowedTCPPorts = [ 8080 ];
    };
  };
}
```

> ## Configuration interpolation {#module-services-netbird-interpolation}

Reviewer: The term interpolation seems weird to me in this context, maybe use `interface-specific` ?

Author: yeah, I'm not sure what to call it either, how about *Configuration overview*?

The key `wt1`/`${name}` gets expanded as follows:

```nix
let
  name = "wt1";
  cfg = config.services.netbird.clients."${name}";
in {
  services.netbird.clients."${name}" = {
    port = 51830;
    name = "netbird-${name}"; # netbird-wt1
    interface = "netbird-${name}"; # netbird-wt1
    environment = {
      NB_CONFIG = "/var/lib/${cfg.name}/config.json"; # /var/lib/netbird-wt1/config.json
      NB_DAEMON_ADDR = "unix:///var/run/${cfg.name}/sock"; # unix:///var/run/netbird-wt1/sock
      NB_INTERFACE_NAME = cfg.interface; # netbird-wt1
    };
  };
  environment.systemPackages = [
    # netbird-${name} # netbird-wt1 wrapper script
  ];
}
```

> Above configuration will:
> 
> 1. start the Netbird daemon in `netbird-wt1.service`
> 2. manage `netbird-wt1` network/wireguard interface
> 3. listen for incoming remote connections on the port `51830`
> 4. use the `/var/lib/netbird-wt1/config.json` configuration file
> 5. will be locally manageable on `unix:///var/run/netbird-wt1/sock` socket
> 6. will have a `netbird-wt1` shortcut as alternative to `netbird --daemon-addr unix:///var/run/netbird-wt1/sock`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The daemon started via this configuration will:

1. run as the `netbird-wt1.service`
2. manage the `netbird-wt1` network interface
3. listen for incoming remote connections on the port `51830`
4. use the `/var/lib/netbird-wt1/config.json` configuration file
5. be locally manageable through the `unix:///var/run/netbird-wt1/sock` socket

A `netbird-wt1` shortcut will be made available to interact with the daemon using the correct settings.
```

## Additional configuration {#module-services-netbird-configuration}

Each Netbird client service:

> - by default runs in `hardened = true` configuration,
> - by default starts with the system `autoStart = true`,
> - can be additionally configured with `environment`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- runs by default in a hardened mode,
- starts by default alongside the sytem,
- can be additionally configured with environment variables,
```

## Quickstart {#module-services-netbird-quickstart}

The absolute minimal configuration for the Netbird client daemon looks like this:

```nix
services.netbird.enable = true;
```

Which is equivalent to:

```nix
services.netbird.clients.wt0 = {
  port = 51820;
  name = "netbird";
  interface = "wt0";
  hardened = false;
};
```

This will set up a `netbird.service` listening on the port `51820` associated to the

> `wt0` interface. There will also be `netbird-wt0` binary installed in addition to `netbird`.

Reviewer 2: Using the config from https://docs.netbird.io/how-to/installation#linux
```nix
 { config, pkgs, ... }:
 {
   services.netbird.enable = true; # for netbird service & CLI
   environment.systemPackages = [ pkgs.netbird-ui ]; # for GUI
 }
```

And then running as described in https://docs.netbird.io/how-to/installation#running-net-bird-with-sso-login it doesn't work as expected:
```
% netbird up
netbird: command not found
```

Author: created an alias for `netbird` and `netbird-ui` command

## Quickstart {#module-services-netbird-quickstart}

The absolute minimal configuration for the Netbird client daemon looks like this:

```nix

> services.netbird.clients.default.port = 51820;

Reviewer: The simplest config is still `services.netbird.enable = true;`
